git diff file1 file2  (compares 2 commited files)
git diff (compares staging area and working directory)
git diff --staged  (compares staging area and last commit)

diff -u file1 file2
git log
git log --stat
git clone url
git config --global color.ui auto

Ctrl + shift + C = copy in cmd line
Ctrl + shift + V = paste in cmd line

git checkout commit_id

git init
git status
git add file_name
git commit
git commit -m "_commit_msg_here_"

 git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    git config --global user.email you@example.com

git checkout master
git reset --hard (DANGER: discards all changes in staging area and working directory)

git branch     (shows all branches, * currently active or checked out )
git branch branch_name
git checkout branch_name  (to switch branches)

git log --graph
git log --graph --oneline
git log --graph --oneline branch names seperated by spaces here

git checkout -b new_branch_name

git show commit_id (checks diff of a commit with it's parent branch)

MERGING-(before merging, checkout to master branch)
git merge branch1 branch2
git branch -d branch_name   (deletes name of branch; useful after merging)

git log -n 1 (shows last commit)

git remote
git remote add repo_name url
git remote -v
git push repo_name branch_name
git fetch branch_name
















													**NOTES**
											A note about git merge

											git merge will also include the currently checked-out branch in the merged version. So if you have branch1 checked out, and you run git merge branch2 branch3, the merged version will combine branch1 as well as branch2 and branch3. That’s because the branch1 label will update after you make the merge commit, so it’s unlikely that you didn’t want the changes from branch1 included in the merge. For this reason, you should always checkout one of the two branches you’re planning on merging before doing the merge. Which one you should check out depends on which branch label you want to point to the new commit.

											Since the checked-out branch is always included in the merge, you may have guessed that when you are merging two branches, you don't need to specify both of them as arguments to git merge on the command line. If you want to merge branch2 into branch1, you can simply git checkout branch1 and then type git merge branch2. The only reason to type git merge branch1 branch2 is if it helps you keep better mental track of which branches you are merging.

											Also, since the two branches are merged, the order in which they are typed into the command line does not matter. The key is to remember that git merge always merges all the specified branches into the currently checked out branch, creating a new commit for that branch.
											Merge conflict

											If you get a message like this

											Auto-merging game.js
											CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in game.js
											Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.

											then your files were not in the same state as Caroline's when you started the merge. To fix this, complete the following steps:

												Restore your files to their state before you started the merge by running git merge --abort
												Double check the state of your files. If you run git log while the master branch is checked out, you should see Caroline's "Add color" commit as the second-most-recent, and the most recent should be your commit fixing the bullet bug. If you use git diff to compare your commit to Caroline's, your commit should introduce the line this.delayBeforeBullet = 10; on line 424. The line should be indented to the same level as the line below it using only spaces (no tabs), and the line should have no spaces after it.
												Once your file is in the correct state, create a new commit with your changes.
												Try the merge again.

											Merge conflict (Newline characters between Windows and Unix systems)

											Context: Whenever we hit the "Enter" key on the keyboard, we are actually telling the computer to insert an invisible character into our text file to indicate to the computer that there should be a new line. Unix systems adds one character called the "line feed" character or LF or \n while Windows systems adds two characters, "carriage return" and "line feed" or CRLF or \r\n.

											Caroline's files have LF because her files were edited on Mac OSX, which uses LF. If a Windows user were to edit Caroline's files, the Windows text editor might convert all LF to CRLF to make editing files possible. When the Windows user merges her file with Caroline's files, a merge conflict will result due to the different LF and CRLF characters.

											To fix this, Windows users should set the global autocrlf attribute to true: git config --global core.autocrlf true. More information can be found here: https://help.github.com/articles/dealing-with-line-endings/#platform-all
											Comparing a commit to its parent

The command Caroline mentions to compare a commit to its parent is git show commit_id
